# Taking control of the digital transformation
The digital transformation is in full swing. The technological progress is rapid and is changing the way we obtain information, communicate, consume – basically, the way we live. We want to understand this transformation as an opportunity to create greater prosperity and a better quality of life for the citizens, whilst shaping it in a socially acceptable way and in harmony with our fundamental values. The Economic Affairs Ministry is fostering this through its economic policies and by providing targeted support to companies.

We have already arrived in a digitised world. Digitisation affects not only traditional IT companies, but companies across the board, in all sectors. New and changed business models are emerging: cars are being shared via apps, languages learnt online, and music streamed. But industry is changing too: 3D printers make parts for machines, robots assemble them, and entire factories are intelligently connected with one another.

We need to make good use of these changes. Germany is a leading global economy with a vital industrial core, an outstandingly positioned Mittelstand and many clever, innovative brains, and offers the best structural preconditions for a digitalised economy.

Despite this, we need to work harder than ever to make sure we don’t miss out on the opportunities offered by the digital transformation. Young, innovative start-ups need capital, not just when they are set up, but particularly so that they can grow on the world market. Increasingly, digital skills and staff with digital training are key for the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. In industry, smart production procedures can lead to higher productivity and efficiency. There is a need for assistance and support in all of these areas.

# Germany and South Africa sign cooperation agreement on green hydrogen
Robert Habeck, Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Action, and Dr Kgosientsho Ramokgopa, Minister of Electricity in the Presidency of South Africa, signed a declaration of intent on the margins of the German-South African Binational Commission on 27 June with the aim to further expand the cooperation on green hydrogen and power-to-x products.

The agreement underlines the desire of both countries to work even more closely together in the fields of the production, processing, use and transport of green hydrogen and the related synthetic fuels and ammonia. To this end, the intergovernmental exchange will be intensified and access to markets will be facilitated. The priorities also include the development of joint projects and the dialogue between representatives of government, research and academia.

Federal Minister Habeck said: "South Africa is an important partner for Germany in Africa. We are pleased that we will also expand our cooperation on green hydrogen. This serves to speed up the economic development, to ensure a reliable supply of electricity in South Africa, and to guarantee a sustainable and diversified energy supply in Germany. Our commitment in this field complements the Federal Governments’s efforts to help South Africa master the energy transition. For this purpose, we have just decided to make available an additional 30 million euros in the context of the International Climate Initiative."

# Forfaiting guarantee streng thens German exporters in international competition easier credit financing for "small tickets"

Federal export credit guarantees are a key instrument for strengthening German businesses abroad. The "Hermes" instrument for export credit guarantees protects companies against payment defaults and facilitates the financing of export transactions.

Past experience has shown that the offer in the "small ticket" sector is inadequate. "Small tickets" are transactions with an order value of up to €10 million. By introducing the forfaiting guarantee on 1 July 2023, this gap will now be closed.

How does a forfaiting guarantee work? As a first step, the German exporter grants its foreign buyer a supplier credit (with a payment term later than the delivery date). As a second step, the bank buys this receivable from the exporter (forfaiting) and thus provides the exporter with new liquidity. The Federation takes over the guarantee for this receivable vis-à-vis the bank, which means that in the event of the foreign buyer's insolvency the Federal Government would compensate the bank for 80% of the loss of receivables. This makes such small-scale hedging transactions much more attractive for banks and exporters.

# Export licences for military equipment in the first half of 2023: 90% of all licences are for close partner countries Ukraine is main recipient
According to preliminary figures for the first half of 2023, individual licences worth €5.22 billion were issued for the export of military equipment (of which €2.44 billion was for war weapons and €2.78 billion for other military equipment). The equivalent figure for 2022 was €4.16 billion. Ukraine accounts for €1.65 billion and is the country with the highest licence value. Further information from the Federal Government about the support provided to Ukraine can be found here.

The lion’s share of the total sum (€4.74 billion out of €5.22 billion) are licences for EU, NATO and countries with NATO-equivalent status, Ukraine and the Republic of Korea. As in 2022, they account for approx. 90% of the total value of all individual export licences issued.

State Secretary Sven Giegold said: "Current levels of licences make it clear that Germany is continuing to support Ukraine as it defends itself against Russia's illegal war of aggression. The figures also underline our very close ties with our EU and NATO partners and close partner countries, compared with the restrictive approach to other third countries. Apart from our own security interests, human rights in the recipient countries remain a key issue for federal policy regarding the export of military equipment. This is why we are also working to establish stronger cooperation in Europe and are continuing to advance work on Germany’s first Military Equipment Export Control Act.”

# Breakthrough in the ambitious EU expansion of renewable energy
EU Council adopts new Directive for the use of renewable energies in the Member States

On 16 June, the Member States of the European Union approved a comprehensive revision of the EU Renewable Energy Directive (RED) in the Permanent Representatives Committee. The European target for renewable energies in 2030 is raised significantly from 32% to 45%. This means a doubling of the share of renewable energies compared to the current level of just under 22% in 2021.

This gives a great boost to the expansion of renewables: the planned expansion of renewable energies by 2030 will thus be roughly doubled. To achieve these new targets, the EU will have to install more than 100 GW of new wind turbines and solar plants every year. For Germany, this means that the greatly increased expansion targets for wind and solar energy introduced in 2022 will be underpinned by European targets and will therefore become binding. The higher EU targets also provide the framework for more far-reaching measures and goals in the EU, for example the EU Solar Strategy, which envisages roughly tripling PV capacity to 600 GW by 2030.